Now we're getting into some of the
exciting features of our difficult design.
And one of the first things that we're
going to work on is the track list.
And the track list is the list of songs
that we have down here at the bottom.
These are tracks that we laid out in
the medium version of the website.
And what we are going to do with these now
is we'd like to hide them behind a big
button.
And if you take a look at the course
website, which is practical.css.education,
we're in Chapter 5, Part E,
the track list on mobile.
You will see how this is going
to look when we're done.
So basically, we will have a track
list button here that when
clicked will open up the full track list.
And the button will say tracklist here,
and it's going to say close once
that button has been clicked.
Now, thinking about an approach for this,
I'm sure JavaScript comes immediately to
mind for you and that's totally fine.
We are definitely going to
need some JavaScript for
this because we have a toggle state here.
We need to make something appear and
disappear on click.
And as we know, CSS does not have
a click state inside of it, so
we're gonna have to go to JavaScript for
that.
But it doesn't have to
be difficult JavaScript,
we don't need a library for this.
We don't need it anything except for
plain, simple vanilla JavaScript.
And literally just a few lines of
code that will swap some classes for
us that are going to control
exactly how this will work.
So basically on click, the class
is going to switch and we can just
set up two sets of styling, the open set
of styling and the closed set of styling.
So that is going to be our overall
approach to putting this together.
If you open up the code
pen starting with this,
fork it to your account,
we can get started with this.
As always, the first thing we're
gonna start with is our HTML, and
if you take a look at the HTML we
have here I have continued on with
the HTML we've been working
with in the difficult design.
So we have our cover section of this
page that contains the album cover,
it contains the icons and
it contains our audio player.
And then after that we have
a section that contains our table.
And the table of course contains
all of the information of
the tracks that are on this album.
So in order to get this style, the first
thing I'm going to do is give this section
a class and I'm going to call it
tracklist because I'm very creative.
And then we can also, here in our layers,
we have a layer called playlist.
And I've started to call
this the track list.
So I'm gonna just rename this layer to
track list I think it's gonna help us keep
track of everything.
So track list is the name of my new layer.
And if we open that up, you'll see
that right now we have all of the CSS
that's here for our table styling and
there's not a lot,
it's just a little bit of styling that
applies to that particular track list.
So the first thing that we need to include
here is something to click in order
to make this thing appear and disappear,
and so we'll do that with a button.
Why a button instead of a link?
Well in this case this is not
going anywhere the button is
triggering an action in JavaScript and so
therefore we'll use a button for
this not a a link the anchor tag.
So we're gonna call this button and
we'll give it an ID,
which we'll refer to in the JavaScript
eventually, called track list.
Again, very, very creative of us.
And the text we'll put on that
button will be track list.
Slash button.
So this will show up here at the top of
our table.
There's our button.
It does nothing right now, but
we have the start of our
tracklist button here.
Now as for this button, we should give it
some better styling than what we see here.
So, let's set that up as well.
And I'm just gonna use the ID to
style that, we'll call it track list.
The ID of track list,
first of all, will display block.
By default buttons are a either inline or
inline block.
We want it to have the ability to stretch
across the page to have margin and
padding on all of the sides.
So we'll set it to display block.
We'll set its border to none.
Once again, the default button that comes
from your web browser has a border on it.
We are just gonna turn it off.
We'll give it a font.
Family of Var serif,
which is what's called for in the design.
Text-transform uppercase again called for
in the design.
And the width to 100%.
So we've start to have the outlines
of a reasonable looking button there.
And now, we'll set our color to
var-, Magenta.
We'll set our background
color to transparent.
There it is.
It's just the word TRACKLIST that's there
right now, OK?
And then finally,
we can make that text a little bit bigger.
Font size, bar, h5, and
our padding of one rem.
So it doesn't look like a super attractive
button there at this moment in time.
And that is because we need to put
a border around the entire layout here.
So you see here in our design, we have
the word track list and we have this
border out here that border expands to
encompass the entire track list on click.
So we don't want the border to be on
the button we want that border
to actually be on our table.
So we'll continue on with our styling
here let's set up a quick hover state for
our button.
So track list colon hover,
and we'll set that to a color
of VaR cyan kind of been doing
that throughout our document.
So we'll have a cyan hover state on it and
that is working just fine.
OK, so
now we have a button that is styled up.
It doesn't do anything yet.
We'll have to add some JavaScript
in order for it to do anything.
But for right now,
let's move on to styling up the table.
So for the table, we have our
section with a class of track list.
We have the table inside of it.
It is the only table in our document,
so we can continue to style with
some of these generic selectors
that we have here for the table.
But the first thing I wanna work on is
the section that surrounds that table,
the section with the class of track list.
So we'll add a class of track list.
And we can set this to margin 0 auto,
to make sure it's always
centered on the page.
Padding 0, 1.5rem.
Not a lot of change going
on down here just yet.
That's really completely obvious, but
it will add up here in just a moment.
And then we'll put our border on this.
So our border of 2pixels
solid var(= =magenta).
So now we have that nice border
all the way around the page here.
We have a little bit of
separation between the table and
the edges of that border so it looks nice.
Now on hover,
notice that my button is changing color.
Why shouldn't my border
change color as well?
When that'd be great.
So we could add that also,
we could say our class
of track list on hover,the border
color should change to var cyan.
So now down here in our tracklist when we
roll our mouse over it both the button and
the border change color when
you hover over the button.
Otherwise just generally
in the track list,
it will change the color of
the border here, but not the button.
All right, now for our table,
as we see from our diagram here,
we have somehow gotten rid of those
headers that we have in that table.
We still want those headers there for
accessibility reasons.
But for our visual viewers of this page,
we don't necessarily need to
have those showing on the page.
So what we'll do for that is,
up here where we have caption, remember,
we have a caption for this table that
you can't see because we collapsed it.
We can do the same thing for
our table headings.
So we can say caption, comma, th.
And that will collapse
our table headings and
then we can turn off the styling here for
our table headings.
That'll get rid of that underline there
and of course we don't need to have,
it doesn't matter what the font
family is or the text alignment,
we're not gonna look at it anymore anyway.
So we can just get rid of that style.
And we can get rid of the padding
on the cells as well.
So that will just apply to the TD now.
So there's our track list and
there's our styles here underneath.
One of the last things that I wanna do
here is these timestamps that are over
here on the right-hand side.
See how it looks a little
bit crooked there?
That looks like those
timestamps are are pushed in.
We can always put a border on things.
So if I put a border one
pixel solid white on my Td's,
you'll see that our timestamps here
are shoved to the left side of the cell.
That's what's causing that sort of
awkward look that's going on there.
So our track numbers are here
at the left side of their cell.
Looks like it has a nice even padding
over there on the side, but our eye
adds together that same padding over here
on the side of our table and our number.
So what we'll wanna do is we'll wanna
push those timestamps to the right side
of the table and that will make our
padding look a little bit more even.
So, to do that,
we'll just simply add to td last of type,
we can say text align right.
And once we have that in place, you see
that our timestamps are pushed over there
to the side,
we can get rid of that border.
And now things look a little bit more
even there in that particular box.